# FreshLLMs: Refreshing Large Language Models with Search Engine Augmentation

OpenReview ID: q38SZkUmUh
Decision: Reject

## Abstract
Most large language models (LLMs) are trained once and never updated; thus, they lack the ability to dynamically adapt to our ever-changing world.  In this work, we perform a detailed study of the factuality of LLM-generated text in the context of answering questions that test current world knowledge. Specifically, we introduce FreshQA, a novel dynamic QA benchmark encompassing a diverse range of question and answer types, including questions that require fast-changing world knowledge as well as questions with false premises that need to be debunked. We benchmark a diverse array of both closed and open-source LLMs under a two-mode evaluation procedure that allows us to measure both correctness and hallucination. Through human evaluations involving more than 50K judgments, we shed light on limitations of these models and demonstrate significant room for improvement: for instance, all models (regardless of model size) struggle on questions that involve fast-changing knowledge and false premises. Motivated by these results, we present FreshPrompt, a simple few-shot prompting method that substantially boosts the performance of an LLM on FreshQA by incorporating relevant and up-to-date information retrieved from a search engine into the prompt.  Our experiments show that FreshPrompt outperforms both competing search engine-augmented prompting methods such as Self-Ask (Press et al., 2022) as well as commercial systems such as Perplexity AI. Further analysis of FreshPrompt reveals that both the number of retrieved evidences and their order play a key role in influencing the correctness of LLM-generated answers.  Additionally, instructing the LLM to generate concise and direct answers helps reduce hallucination compared to encouraging more verbose answers. To facilitate future research, we will release FreshQA after blind review and commit to updating it at regular intervals.

## Reviews

### Review 1
Rating: 8: accept, good paper
Confidence: 4: You are confident in your assessment, but not absolutely certain. It is unlikely, but not impossible, that you did not understand some parts of the submission or that you are unfamiliar with some pieces of related work.

#### Summary
In this work the authors conduct detailed study over the factuality and hallucination of text generated by Large Language Models (LLMs) and propose a question answering benchmark FRESHQA which mainly focuses on questions requiring fast-changing world knowledge. Moreover, the authors also present FRESHPROMPT, a few-shot prompting method aiming to boost the performance of LLMs in acquiring up-to-date knowledge retrieved from search engines. Experiments on several LLMs show FRESHPROMPT outperforms other search engine-augmented prompting methods.

#### Strengths
1.	A novel QA benchmark with 600 questions divided into four main categories: never-changing questions, slow-changing questions, fast-changing questions and false-premise questions is proposed for testing factuality of LLMs. Both questions are generated by nlp researchers and online freelancers and cover a wide range of topics. The authors also commit to update the dataset to get up-to-date knowledge. This benchmark is likely to benefit LLM research a lot.
2.	The paper is well written with clear motivations. A QA benchmark for LLMs is first presented and analysis of different models’ score follows. Then a search engine-based prompting method FRESHPROMPT is proposed to alleviate the problem of factuality, with 
3.	Good empirical results. FRESHPROMPT outperforms PERPLEXITY.AI and SELF-ASK on GPT-3.5 and GPT-4. The authors also conduct detailed ablation studies to analyze the results from different perspective.

#### Weaknesses
1.	The authors conduct experiments on T5, PaLM and GPT series LLMs and show the influence of parameter size on benchmark score. However, I think more experiments on different famous LLMs like LLaMA, Falcon, etc are needed as benchmark baselines. 
2.	For better visualization, the best results in Table 1 need to be displayed in bold.

#### Questions
na

### Review 2
Rating: 5: marginally below the acceptance threshold
Confidence: 3: You are fairly confident in your assessment. It is possible that you did not understand some parts of the submission or that you are unfamiliar with some pieces of related work. Math/other details were not carefully checked.

#### Summary
The paper analyzes how Large Language Models (LLMs) perform when queried with questions involving fast-changing knowledge or questions requiring the debunking of false premises. To this end, they introduce a new high-quality Q&A dataset, FreshQA, comprising 600 questions. They evaluate the performance of multiple LLMs under two regimes: STRICT, in which an answer is correct if and only if the reasoning and the answer are correct, and RELAXED, in which it is sufficient for the answer to the question to be correct. This sheds light on whether the models can arrive at the correct answer while hallucinating some facts about the world. To improve performance, the authors devise a method to incorporate search results from Google into the context of the LLM. The conclusion is that LLMs struggle with fast-changing and false premise questions (although GPT-4 seems to perform quite well on these types of questions if the knowledge is before its cut-off date), and retrieval-augmented generation improves the performance of LLMs.

#### Strengths
- Well-written and easy to read
- Provides a high-quality dataset of 600 questions, along with useful question taxonomy (required knowledge dates, is multi-hop, has false premise, etc.)

#### Weaknesses
- Dataset and paper lacks any type of automatic evaluation metric, everything is based on human eval (major)
- Findings are not particularly novel or unexpected (minor)
- Methodology for retrieval seem to be tailored to Google Search (as the authors acknowledge, minor)

#### Questions
Thanks to the authors for the thoroughly executed paper. Although I think that the results are not particularly unexpected or novel (e.g. LLMs struggle with multi-hop questions as noted in Self-Ask, or questions that involve fresh, novel and changing knowledge, and that retrieval from a search engine helps), I think the main scientific contribution of this paper might be considered the high-quality dataset of questions.

This leads us to the main weakness of the paper. If I understand correctly, the evaluation in this paper is performed exclusively by human annotation. While I appreciate this substantial evaluation effort, it raises some concerns, especially given that one of the authors' goals is to provide this dataset to the community to facilitate further research in this field.

How many annotators were used to perform each system's evaluation in this paper? Inter-annotator agreement between two evaluators on a subset of 100 questions is reported in the appendix, and it is shown that the agreement is high. Do the authors expect everyone in the research community using the dataset to follow the same evaluation protocol to assess their own systems?

These questions leave me wondering whether the authors could have created an automatic evaluation metric that might make the dataset more broadly useful to the community and less subject to annotator variance.

For example, by carefully crafting the questions with multiple-choice answers (with carefully selected hard negative options that could elicit some of the capabilities the authors are examining, e.g., integrating options with incorrect reasoning but correct answers). Multiple-choice is a strategy already used in well-known QA benchmarks such as MMLU or the suite of the original 11 T0 held-out tasks and lends itself nicely to computing accuracy. Can the authors elaborate on why they didn't choose this option?

Overall, I appreciate the effort put into this paper, but I am a bit unsure about the broad usability of such dataset in the current state. I hope the authors can help me clarify these doubts and, if so, I will be more than willing to increase my score.

### Review 3
Rating: 6: marginally above the acceptance threshold
Confidence: 4: You are confident in your assessment, but not absolutely certain. It is unlikely, but not impossible, that you did not understand some parts of the submission or that you are unfamiliar with some pieces of related work.

#### Summary
The paper addresses the challenge of large language models (LLMs) not being updated with current information, leading to inaccuracies in their responses. The authors introduce "FreshQA", a dynamic QA benchmark designed to test the factuality of LLM-generated answers, especially for questions requiring up-to-date knowledge or debunking false premises. Through extensive human evaluations, they highlight the limitations of current LLMs in addressing fast-changing and false-premise questions. To combat this, they propose FreshPrompt, an in-context learning method that augments LLMs with up-to-date information from search engines, significantly enhancing their factuality.

#### Strengths
1. Tackles a paramount limitation of LLMs – their reliance on outdated or erroneous knowledge.

2. Unveils a dynamic benchmark, FreshQA, capable of evolving over time, which stands as a potent tool for continuous evaluations.

3. Implements a thorough evaluation procedure to gauge both the accuracy and potential hallucination in LLM responses.

#### Weaknesses
1. The evolving nature of FreshQA could pose challenges for researchers aiming for consistent benchmarks over varied time frames.

2. The FreshQA dataset bears similarities with RealTimeQA and TimeQA, which somewhat dilutes the novelty of this work, although it remains a complementary addition.

3. The proposed method isn't entirely groundbreaking, given precedents like internet-augmented LLM [1] and REPLUG [2].
[1] Internet-augmented language models through few-shot prompting for open-domain question answering
[2] Replug: Retrieval-augmented black-box language models.

#### Questions
see weakness

## Meta Reviews

### Meta Review 1
This paper introduces a new dynamic question answering benchmark, FreshQA, that aims to assess models' ability to answer questions on current world knowledge. The work assesses a set of LLMs on the benchmark, demonstrating the limitations of these models for such dynamic knowledge. The paper also includes experiments with a new few-shot prompting method, FreshPrompt that incorporates recent relevant information in the prompt, and demonstrates that this helps improve performance in comparison to baselines, such as Self-Ask. The work is interesting and useful, however, a major limitation is the lack of an automated metric, as raised by the reviewers (and this wasn't sufficiently considered in the rebuttal).

## Decisions

Decision: Reject
