# Harnessing the Power of Large Language Models for Natural Language to First-Order Logic Translation

OpenReview ID: QzQSR56JZr
Decision: Reject

## Abstract
Translating natural language sentences to first-order logic (NL-FOL translation) remains a critical task in many logic-based NLP systems, as it enables ML models to reason logically over text.
However, existing translation methods still struggle to scale to real-world tasks due to the lack of a large and high-quality dataset and a model family with high precision and coverage.

In this work, we approach this longstanding challenge by harnessing the power of pre-trained large language models (LLMs).
To do so, we present MALLS (large language **M**odel gener**A**ted N**L**-FO**L** pair**S**), a dataset of 28K diverse and verified sentence-level NL-FOL pairs collected from GPT-4.
We create MALLS by implementing an adaptive pipeline that prompts GPT-4 for pairs with rich and diverse contexts. 
To ensure the validity of FOL rules and their alignment with the NL sentences, we utilized a combined strategy of FOL rule parsing, human annotation, and automatic filtering.

We also present LogicLLaMA, an LLaMA2-7B/13B model family fine-tuned on MALLS for NL-FOL translation. 
LogicLLaMA is capable of directly translating natural language into FOL rules, which outperforms GPT-3.5. 
LogicLLaMA is also equipped to correct FOL rules predicted by GPT-3.5, and can achieve similar performance as GPT-4 with a fraction of the cost.
This correction ability was achieved by a novel reinforcement learning with human feedback (RLHF) framework, which initially trains on synthetically perturbed NL-FOL pairs to encourage chain-of-thought reasoning and then fine-tunes with RLHF on GPT-3.5 outputs using a FOL verifier as the reward model. 
Codes and data are available [here](https://www.dropbox.com/sh/t0f69776773e9er/AABKaWuvepUvhSp-0u2w-b2Pa?dl=0).

## Reviews

### Review 1
Rating: 6: marginally above the acceptance threshold
Confidence: 4: You are confident in your assessment, but not absolutely certain. It is unlikely, but not impossible, that you did not understand some parts of the submission or that you are unfamiliar with some pieces of related work.

#### Summary
This paper 28K sentence-level natural language to First Order Logic pairs collected from GPT-4. The authors also present a LLaMA-13B model fine-tuned on this dataset which combined with GPT3.5 achieves GPT-4 level performance on the NL-FOL translation tasks.

The combination method with GPT3.5 is interesting because it relies on using RLHF method to correct synthetically perturbed NL-FOL pairs and using a first order logic verifier as a reward model.

#### Strengths
This paper presents a new method for gathering RLHF feedback based on iterative correction which is a non-trivial extension of previous methods.

#### Weaknesses
The techniques in the paper are not novel and fine-tuning LLAMA for a downstream task can be considered engineering at this point instead of active research. The novelty of the proposed approach is not totally clear.

#### Questions
Even though the paper says that the LogicLLAMA is finetuned using RLHF there is no human feedback involved. It should probably be called something else ?

### Review 2
Rating: 3: reject, not good enough
Confidence: 4: You are confident in your assessment, but not absolutely certain. It is unlikely, but not impossible, that you did not understand some parts of the submission or that you are unfamiliar with some pieces of related work.

#### Summary
The paper aims to address the challenge of translating natural language sentences into first-order logic (FOL). A new dataset, MALLS, is proposed, which is generated by leveraging LLMs and applying filtering rules to eliminate bad cases. The paper proposed fine-tuning LLaMA on MALLS to enhance LLaMA's FOL generation ability. The model is tested on LogicNLI, FOLIO, and MALLS to demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method.

#### Strengths
The paper demonstrates considerable effort in conducting numerous experiments to achieve its objective.
The motivation to enhance FOL generation ability is interesting.

#### Weaknesses
1. The paper lacks novelty. Most contributions are either engineering work or published work including: prompting LLM to generate data, various prompting and dataset filtering methods, supervised fine-tuning, and RLHF. Moreover, the conclusions are predictable: fine-tuning LLM on a specific domain can improve its performance, potentially surpassing the best LLM for open domains.
2. The proposed methods do not show significant improvement. As per Table 2, the majority of the gain comes from vanilla supervised fine-tuning on MALLS, and the newly proposed methods only bring marginal gains, especially when compared to the gain from the baseline to vanilla fine-tuning.

#### Questions
1. The abstract should be written in a single paragraph.
2. Consider reducing the use of markers like C1-C2, Q1-Q2, T1-T4. The frequent use of these symbols indicates a struggle to explain clearly, and it can be challenging for readers to understand by locating the definition. Short names might be more effective.
3. Try to limit the number of your contributions and new terms. Highlight only the most significant things you want readers to remember. Currently, you have five prompting methods to create the dataset, four rules to filter the dataset, four fine-tuning methods to train LLaMA, and the experiment aims to address four research questions. This approach dilutes each contribution and makes it difficult to determine whether it works and can be generalized to new problems.
4. Can your method generate more examples, since your generation and filtering are automatically executed?
5. How do you assess the coverage or diversity of your dataset? LLM may only generate high-frequency knowledge.
6. While the natural language input generated from LLM is often fluent and grammatically correct, real human inputs can be noisy. How do you address this issue?

### Review 3
Rating: 8: accept, good paper
Confidence: 4: You are confident in your assessment, but not absolutely certain. It is unlikely, but not impossible, that you did not understand some parts of the submission or that you are unfamiliar with some pieces of related work.

#### Summary
This paper contributed the MALLS dataset and the LogicLLAMA models for natural language to first-order-logic translation tasks. The authors also describe a multi-stage training paradigm using closed-source GPT models to generate datasets for training open-source LLAM for the NL-FOL translation tasks. Experiments are conducted to demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposal.

#### Strengths
• Investing the possible links between large language models and logical reasoning is an important topics to advance the methodology for AI.
• The paradigm of training open-sourced NL-FOL from open-sourced LLMs using data sourcing from close-sourced LLMs is a reasonable way to create NL-FOL models.
• Experiments demonstrate almost start-of-the-art performance of NL-FOL tasks with the proposed LogicLLAMA model from LLAMA.

#### Weaknesses
• The targeting FOL language lacks a formal characterization. Is it an fully expressive First-order logic language or just the logic program subset? 
•  The description of iterative correction via RLHF is difficult to follow lacking a few explicit description to task T4. In particular, it took me multiple-pass to understand why T4 is different from T3. It might worth a few rewriting to make this more explicit and easy to follow regarding the format of training data and loss functions.

#### Questions
1. Page 7, regarding logical equivalence, which exact semantic models of FOL do you refer to? It is better to explicitly name the exact semantic models, such as Herbrand structure/universe if there is any; otherwise there might be ambiguity rendering the FOL being just a subset of FOL --- even if only a subset of FOL is supported it is already meaningful but please be specific. 
2.  Please formally define the 4 training tasks T1-T4 with explicit input-output definitions and loss definitions (if not enough space, putting them into supplemental materials is acceptable).

## Meta Reviews

### Meta Review 1
This paper introduces the MALLS dataset of NL-FOL pairs and finetunes LLaMA (LogicLLAMA) for the translation tasks. Apart from the dataset, the contributions seem weak. Also, the reviewers raised concerns regarding the lack of generalization of LogicLLaMA.

## Decisions

Decision: Reject
