# Towards Understanding Factual Knowledge of Large Language Models

OpenReview ID: 9OevMUdods
Decision: Accept

## Abstract
Large language models (LLMs) have recently driven striking performance improvements across a range of natural language processing tasks. The factual knowledge acquired during pretraining and instruction tuning can be useful in various downstream tasks, such as question answering, and language generation. Unlike conventional Knowledge Bases (KBs) that explicitly store factual knowledge, LLMs implicitly store facts in their parameters. Content generated by the LLMs can often exhibit inaccuracies or deviations from the truth, due to facts that can be incorrectly induced or become obsolete over time. To this end, we aim to explore the extent and scope of factual knowledge within LLMs by designing the benchmark Pinocchio. Pinocchio contains 20K diverse factual questions that span different sources, timelines, domains, regions, and languages. Furthermore, we investigate whether LLMs can compose multiple facts, update factual knowledge temporally, reason over multiple pieces of facts, identify subtle factual differences, and resist adversarial examples. Extensive experiments on different sizes and types of LLMs show that existing LLMs still lack factual knowledge and suffer from various spurious correlations. We believe this is a critical bottleneck for realizing trustworthy artificial intelligence. The dataset Pinocchio and our codes are publicly available at: https://github.com/THU-BPM/Pinocchio.

## Reviews

### Review 1
Rating: 8: accept, good paper
Confidence: 4: You are confident in your assessment, but not absolutely certain. It is unlikely, but not impossible, that you did not understand some parts of the submission or that you are unfamiliar with some pieces of related work.

#### Summary
This work presented a benchmark containing 20K diverse factual questions that span different sources, timelines, domains, regions, and languages. This work also thoroughly investigated different sizes and types of LLMs on this benchmark and reported their findings.

#### Strengths
This work presented a comprehensive benchmark for testing LLMs' factual and commonsense knowledge.

This work annotated 20K factual questions from seven diverse tasks, which provides a good testbed for the community.

The analyses presented are solid and insightful.

#### Weaknesses
~Actually, I am satisfied the most part of this paper and willing to raise my score if the author can cover the following points:~

Some points in the main results could be verified through better experiment settings, such as the point that "LLMs without instruction tuning underperform those with instruction tuning by 16.0%". It's better to conduct a peer-to-peer comparison since the instruction tuning is not the only factor of the two groups. For example, we can compare LLaMA with Alpaca and Vicuna, OPT vs. OPT-IML, T5 vs. Flan-T5, BLOOM vs. BLOOMz. I am not saying that we need to compare all of them, but the comparison could be made between the instruction tuning model and its backbone. 

For the "Using the CoT method, we observed a relative boost in performance in LLMs subjected to
instruction tuning and RLHF", the tested models may not have strong CoT ability. It's good to see LLaMA-2 or GPT-4 and other recent models that claim to have strong reasoning abilities. Since CoT is not a generic ability that every LLM has. 

Besides, you can include an additional metric to report the cases that LLMs failed to generate meaningful answers. Since LLM may refuse to answer according to security or other customized policies, treating all unanswered questions as wrong predictions may be unfair. 

Sec-4.2 could be improved, especially the discussion around temporal analysis, " GPT-3.5-Turbo exhibits superior performance when dealing with outdated data as compared to updated data.", I think the numbers are close, and it may not be sufficient to support the claim. 

There are some missing references for testing LLM's factuality. 

SelfCheckGPT: Zero-Resource Black-Box Hallucination Detection for Generative Large Language Models
FActScore: Fine-grained Atomic Evaluation of Factual Precision in Long Form Text Generation
FacTool: Factuality Detection in Generative AI -- A Tool Augmented Framework for Multi-Task and Multi-Domain Scenarios

#### Questions
See weaknesses

### Review 2
Rating: 6: marginally above the acceptance threshold
Confidence: 3: You are fairly confident in your assessment. It is possible that you did not understand some parts of the submission or that you are unfamiliar with some pieces of related work. Math/other details were not carefully checked.

#### Summary
This paper proposes a benchmark named Pinocchio to research if LLMs learn factual knowledge correctly from seven aspects. The authors gather the text containing rich factual knowledge from existing datasets. Questions and answers are annotated manually based on the gathered text. With this proposed benchmark, the authors evaluate current popular LLMs.

#### Strengths
Identifying the drawbacks of LLMs in terms of the learned factual knowledge is important. The proposed benchmark contains questions from different aspects, which could encourage researchers to find the specific issues of LLMs and explore how to address them.

#### Weaknesses
1. Data leaky may happen. Note that the questions and answers are annotated based on the text of previous public datasets. The pretraining data of evaluated LLMs is likely to contain the text. This may cause data leaky, and LLMs might have memorized/learned shortcuts to answer the question. It makes the evaluation results on the benchmark less convincing.

2. Overclaimed contribution (as well as title) to the research question. I think the main contribution of this paper is the newly proposed benchmark. In the experiment, the authors research the extent and scope of factual knowledge within LLMs. However, the authors only test LLMs on the benchmark. There are no baselines (LLMs, datasets) as a comparison. Only showing accuracy numbers is not sufficient to give the answer to this research question.

#### Questions
1. May I ask how you design the seven aspects for evaluation? Any high-level intuition?

2. Can 92.4% annotation accuracy (as well as 85.6% inter-annotator agreement rate) promise the quality of the dataset? Does that mean when the test accuracy of LLMs is larger than ~= 85%, it's meaningless to use this benchmark for evaluation?

### Review 3
Rating: 5: marginally below the acceptance threshold
Confidence: 4: You are confident in your assessment, but not absolutely certain. It is unlikely, but not impossible, that you did not understand some parts of the submission or that you are unfamiliar with some pieces of related work.

#### Summary
1. Lack of datasets to evaluate LLMs ability to hold and reason over factual knowledge is the primary motivation of the paper to come up with a new benchmark called Pinocchio benchmark. This benchmarks can evaluate LLMs in tasks that needs to know factual knowledge from diverse set of domains, multiple facts to reason, and the facts may be present in different information sources. The work also performs varied experiments and analysis on factuality or non factuality for multiple large language models. The experiments and conclusions are presented well. 
    2. Datasets: 
        1. Most datasets have evidence but Pinnachio only cares yes or no answers without any evidence, specifically multiple choice question answers. More explanation on how this is a good strategy to conclude if LLMs are able to memorize and use facts is unclear from the paper.
        2. There is no clear motivation in the paper on why these datasets were chosen — are these the only specific 7 categories of questions? Or was it the distribution of the known datasets and the data points?
        3. Evaluating answers with evidences has led to better understanding on the performance of large language models. It will be good to compare performances of the large language models on the datasets vs how they are transformed for this setting
    3. Conclusions from this work:
        1. The work also performs varied experiments and analysis on factuality or non factuality and comes up with the following conclusions:
            1. Instruction tuning performs better than non-instruct tuning
            2. Few shot with COT > Few shot > Zero-shot with COT > Zero Shot
            3. The number of hops in multi-hop reasoning dictates the performance decrease of GPT
            4. LLMs have limited ability to use structured data
            5. Numerical reasoning is harder for LLMs
            6. LLMs are unable to use the latest data (temporal) but are able to answer with older data (trained on) 
        2. Comments: 
            1. These conclusions hold for Large Language Models in a more generic sense rather than just factuality. It’s important for the authors to clarify the important of new conclusions in comparison on what already exists. Explanations of how these are different when made on the same datasets before deriving them to a multiple-choice QA dataset.

#### Strengths
1. An annotated dataset of 20k that can evaluate factuality of large language models.
2. Work is presented well with experiments and conclusions.

#### Weaknesses
1. Data is derived from existing datasets but the motivation for transformation is not clearly specified
2. Most conclusions of the experiments are already made in isolation prior to this work. The novelty in experiments and conclusion should be well specified.

#### Questions
Already in the summary

### Review 4
Rating: 8: accept, good paper
Confidence: 4: You are confident in your assessment, but not absolutely certain. It is unlikely, but not impossible, that you did not understand some parts of the submission or that you are unfamiliar with some pieces of related work.

#### Summary
This paper introduces a benchmark that specifically evaluates the parametric knowledge acquired by LLMs during pretraining. The authors collected and recast existing knowledge-intensive datasets such as fact checking (e.g., FEVER) across seven domains:
- Multiple-facts (e.g., multiple supporting facts)
- Structural (e.g., with tables)
- Adversarial (e.g., unrelated facts)
- Temporal (e.g., Wikipedia revisions) 
- Real-world (e.g., politifact)
- Domain-specific (e.g., medical and science)
- Multi-lingual (e.g., French, Chinese, and more)
All examples are formulated as multiple-choice problems with three classes. 10 human annotators rewrote the original claims into questions while preserving the original facts and their labels. 

The experiment setup primarily focuses on LLMs with prompting (zero-shot, few-shot, w/CoT). The major pretrained LLMs are evaluated on this benchmark, including public LLMs such as OPT, BLOOM, and LLaMA and commercial LLMs such as GPT3 and ChatGPT. Overall, ChatGPT and GPT3 outperform other LLMs by large margin, regardless of the prompting methods used. The fine-grained results show that the commercial LLMs are strong on many domains but underperform other LLMs on the temporal domain. Additionally, the authors performed analysis on different aspects such as question types and performance.

#### Strengths
- This paper investigates factual knowledge in LLMs, which is a well-motivated problem.
- A comprehensive benchmark covering different aspects of factual knowledge is proposed, particularly suitable for prompting.

#### Weaknesses
Dataset Design: _“...multi-choice questions are a simple but good proxy to evaluate the potential of advanced abilities of LLMs…”_: I think this claim should be supported by prior work. I tend to disagree with this statement as Chen and Durrett (2019) concludes that, for some datasets, multiple-choice questions could be easily gamed (i.e., spurious correlations between questions and labels).  Link: https://arxiv.org/pdf/1904.12106.pdf

A significant number of related papers have not been cited. There are numerous strands of prior work that investigate the factual knowledge and reasoning abilities of large language models (LLMs), including multi-hop reasoning, temporal and geographical questions, new entities, and complex inference. (I’m listing a few of them here)
- Did Aristotle Use a Laptop? A Question Answering Benchmark with Implicit Reasoning Strategies (https://arxiv.org/abs/2101.02235) 
- SituatedQA: Incorporating Extra-Linguistic Contexts into QA (https://arxiv.org/abs/2109.06157)
- A Dataset for Answering Time-Sensitive Questions (https://arxiv.org/abs/2108.06314)
- Entity Cloze By Date: What LMs Know About Unseen Entities (https://arxiv.org/abs/2205.02832)
- RealTime QA: What's the Answer Right Now? (https://arxiv.org/abs/2207.13332)
- StreamingQA: A Benchmark for Adaptation to New Knowledge over Time in Question Answering Models (https://arxiv.org/abs/2205.11388)
- Can LMs Learn New Entities from Descriptions? Challenges in Propagating Injected Knowledge (https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.01651)
- FreshLLMs: Refreshing Large Language Models with Search Engine Augmentation (https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.03214)

#### Questions
- _“...but in Pinocchio, we only need to judge the factuality of the question.”_ Does this mean all supporting facts are not included in the questions?

Minor:
- The terms “Multifaceted” and “multifacted” are used interchangeably. Is this a typo?

## Meta Reviews

### Meta Review 1
This paper introduces a new benchmark named Pinocchio, which helps evaluate the parametric knowledge acquired by LLMs during pretraining. The authors recast existing datasets (e.g., FEVER) to analyze LLM's fact-related capabilities across seven different facets and tasks (structural with tables, temporal with revisions, etc.). The experiments in the paper primarily focus on LLM prompting (e.g., zero-shot, CoT) and provide a comparison of various commercial (e.g., ChatGPT) and open-source LLMs (e.g., LLaMA) across these facets. The initial submission of the paper had some issues such as data leakage and overclaiming, but the authors provided extensive revisions and responses that appear to address all the main concerns (resulting in a data leakage rate of only 7.4%, significantly less than comparable datasets). The authors also conducted additional experiments on established multiple-choice question-answering benchmarks (e.g., WikiHop). Overall, the reviewers found the contribution of this paper to be quite significant, as a benchmark assessing various aspects of factual knowledge could be of great value to the community and research on knowledge-intensive tasks. In light of these contributions, I recommend accepting this paper. Note: The data leakage analysis provided in the rebuttal does not seem to appear in the revision of the paper, and I would recommend adding it to the camera-ready paper (e.g., in the appendix), as other readers might also wonder about possible data leakage.

## Decisions

Decision: Accept (spotlight)
