# XplainLLM: A QA Explanation Dataset for Understanding LLM Decision-Making

OpenReview ID: Ba5KGabRe8
Decision: Reject

## Abstract
Large Language Models (LLMs) have recently made impressive strides in natural language understanding tasks. Despite their remarkable performance, understanding their decision-making process remains a big challenge. In this paper, we look into bringing some transparency to this process by introducing a new explanation dataset for question answering (QA) tasks that integrates knowledge graphs (KGs) in a novel way. Our dataset includes 12,102 question-answer-explanation (QAE) triples. Each explanation in the dataset links the LLM's reasoning to entities and relations in the KGs. The explanation component includes a $\textit{why-choose}$ explanation, a $\textit{why-not-choose}$ explanation, and a set of $\textit{reason-elements}$ that underlie the LLM's decision. We leverage KGs and graph attention networks (GAT) to find the $\textit{reason-elements}$ and transform them into $\textit{why-choose}$ and $\textit{why-not-choose}$  explanations that are comprehensible to humans. Through quantitative and qualitative evaluations, we demonstrate the potential of our dataset to improve the in-context learning of LLMs, and enhance their interpretability and explainability. Our work contributes to the field of explainable AI by enabling a deeper understanding of the LLMs decision-making process to make them more transparent and thereby, potentially more reliable, to researchers and practitioners alike. Our dataset is available at: http://anonymous.4open.science/r/XplainLLM.

## Reviews

### Review 1
Rating: 3: reject, not good enough
Confidence: 4: You are confident in your assessment, but not absolutely certain. It is unlikely, but not impossible, that you did not understand some parts of the submission or that you are unfamiliar with some pieces of related work.

#### Summary
The paper's primary goal is to enhance the interpretability and explainability of Language Learning Models (LLMs) by integrating a generated reasoning process into a QA model as input. The authors conducted experiments on a commonsense QA task, employing a Graph Attention Network (GAT) model to encode an external knowledge graph and identify the most influential nodes/keywords as reasoning evidence. Subsequently, GPT-3.5 was used to generate explanatory paragraphs, elucidating why each answer candidate is considered correct or incorrect. These generated decision-making process paragraphs were then utilized by the QA model for predictions. The experimental findings demonstrated a noteworthy improvement of 5.1% compared to GPT-3.5 on the CommonsenseQA dataset, showcasing the effectiveness of the newly-introduced decision-making process. Furthermore, a human study validated the high quality of the generated explanations. The authors will also release their dataset, XplainLLM, marking it as the first dataset designed to capture the pivotal elements influencing the model's reasoning process.

#### Strengths
1. The proposed method, which incorporates a decision-making process into a QA model, yields significant improvements. This highlights that offering explanations in natural language not only enhances model explainability, but also boosts the performance of the QA model.
2. As a result of this work, a new dataset will be created, providing both "why" and "why not" justifications for each answer candidate. This resource could be valuable for future research within the community.

#### Weaknesses
1. The writing requires improvement in two key areas: (1) The technical details are unclear, particularly regarding the training of the QA model M and graph model G, as well as the evaluation process for the reason-elements. (2) Numerous typos need correction. E.g., in the subsection of Decision Interpretation on Page 4, "consider any node..." needs to be "for any node".

2. The task 2 setting is a bit redundant. Since one of the input E_why already contains the predicted answer, why we need to feed it to another QA model for prediction? How often does the QA model's predicted answer differ from E_why?

3. It's important to acknowledge that the explanations generated by the model may be prone to noise, as they are produced by an automated generator rather than a human. While efforts have been made to evaluate both "why" and "why not" explanations from various perspectives, their quality remains, the quality is still questionable. Notably, only the generated explanations are assessed, while the selected reason-elements from GAT are neither evaluated nor supervised. If these reason-elements are incorrect or suboptimal, it may impact the overall quality of the resulting natural language explanations.

#### Questions
1.  What is "||" operator on page 4?

### Review 2
Rating: 6: marginally above the acceptance threshold
Confidence: 3: You are fairly confident in your assessment. It is possible that you did not understand some parts of the submission or that you are unfamiliar with some pieces of related work. Math/other details were not carefully checked.

#### Summary
This paper introduces a dataset, XplainLLM, consisting of explanations that link the LLM reasoning process to the entities and relations within knowledge graphs (KGs). The explanations are presented in a human-understandable way, including why-choose and why-not-choose explanations. XplainLLM contains 12,102 question-answer-explanation (QAE) triples. The explanations effectively enhance the performance of LLMs on commonsense QA. Both human and automatic evaluations are conducted to evaluate the quality of explanations.

#### Strengths
-	Novelty. This paper proposes a novel method that incorporates highlighted elements and guided instruction to generate a free-text explanation. KGs and graph attention networks (GAT) are leveraged to extract reason elements w.r.t. model decision-making. The reason elements are then converted into human-understandable explanations.
-	This paper is well-written and easy to follow. The experiments are comprehensive and convincing, showing the quality of collected explanations through both human and automatic evaluations and the utility of explanations in enhancing the performance of LLMs.
-	The dataset is released, which may benefit future research.

#### Weaknesses
-	It is not clear why the RoBERTa-Large model is used as the decision model. Since the final explanations are generated by the GPT-3.5-turbo model, the performance gain may benefit from the external knowledge provided by GPT-3.5-turbo. It is worth considering different types of decision and generator models.
-	The proposed framework seems promising in explaining a model’s decision-making in a human-understandable way. However, it is not clear how much it benefits the dataset construction. Solely using GPT-3.5-turbo or GPT-4 for prompting can facilitate the creation of a dataset with question-answer-explanation triples.

#### Questions
-	Why is RoBERTa-Large used as the decision model instead of more advanced LLMs?
-	To what extent the reason-elements extraction with KGs and GAT can enhance the explanation generated by GPT-3.5-turbo? How about solely using GPT-3.5-turbo to generate explanations?

### Review 3
Rating: 3: reject, not good enough
Confidence: 3: You are fairly confident in your assessment. It is possible that you did not understand some parts of the submission or that you are unfamiliar with some pieces of related work. Math/other details were not carefully checked.

#### Summary
This paper introduces a dataset for helping humans understand the decision-making process of LLMs by integrating the explanations to entities and relations present in a knowledge graph (KG). Operating in a multiple-choice setting for question answering, the dataset captures explanations for both the “why” as well as the “why-not” (i.e. explanations for options that are incorrect). 

The paper first constructs a pruned knowledge graph starting from the entities present in the question and answer options. The pruning is done by scoring nodes and edges wrt the question and it follows the steps of previous work (Yasunaga et al 2021). After forming the question subgraph, the model employs graph attention networks (GAT) on the subgraph to form node embeddings of entities. The top-m nodes in the graph w.r.t the attention scores are selected as the \textit{reason-elements}. 

Using the \textit{reason-elements} and the correct answer, explanations in natural language were generated by GPT-3.5. Explanation are generated for supporting the correct answer option as well as for not supporting the incorrect options, all while being conditioned on the reason-set. The quality of the dataset is verified by humans as well as via automated models (GPT-3.5 and GPT-4).

#### Strengths
**Originality**

The GAT set up closely follows Yasunaga et al 2021, however the current paper uses the top-attended nodes from the output of the GAT model as anchor points (reason-set) to generate a dataset with explanations. Even though I am not convinced about the quality of the reason-set, this part of the paper is novel

**Quality**

I am not convinced about the quality of the dataset produced as I expand in the next section. Hence I am not sure about the current quality of the paper.

**Clarity**

Overall, the paper was not difficult to follow, however a lot of important details have been put into the appendix which, sometimes, affect the readability. For instance, at the end of Sec 3.1, a lot of new notations have  been introduced (e,g, P, T, C) and the readers have been asked to refer to the appendix. Therefore I believe the paper will benefit from a round of re-writing.

**Significance**

Given that I am not sure about the quality of the dataset as a benchmark for explainable AI, I am not sure the paper in its current form would be significant for the XAI community.

#### Weaknesses
* The biggest confusion I had while reading the paper is whether the paper introduces a model for explainable AI or introduces a dataset for XAI. The paper claims that it does the latter, however the dataset is automatically derived from the outputs of a model itself. For example, the reason set is the output of a graph neural network model which itself is a black-box and can be inaccurate. What is the guarantee that the reason-set faithfully reflects the working of the GAT model and therefore how can we be convinced that a dataset derived from a model can be used to evaluate other XAI models in an unbiased way?
  * A related point is what is the guarantee that the dataset will not favor models that are not from the same family as the model used to create the dataset? What is the guarantee that it wont penalize a model which in-reality is a better XAI model but produces explanation which are different from the current dataset.

* The reason elements are selected as the top-k elements based on attention scores. However the attention scores are itself computed by a black-box graph neural network model. What is the guarantee that the reason-elements are faithful and reflect the actual decision making process of the model?
  * For example, in Figure 1, the reason elements selected by the model (e.g. delay, delivery, maintain, etc) look arbitrary to me given the question. Since these form the back-bone of the explanation generation process, it is important that the reason-elements truly reflect the model decision-making process and I am not convinced that is the case.
  * A similar observation about the example in appendix D.4. For the given question: “The people danced to the music, what was the music like for them?” - why would a top-reason element be “play_mozart”? Introducing Mozart for this question is unnecessary and might make the explanation meaningless. Also, if used as a benchmark, if a model does not generate Mozart as a part of its explanation, why should it be penalized?
* The explanation generated from the reason-elements also seem arbitray to me. Even though all the reason-elements are covered in the explanation, the provided explanation does not seem sound to me. For example, “”the keywords maintain and cease suggest that the clerk wants to keep the check in a secure location”. Why is this a valid explanation generated by the LLM?
  * I have similar observation and comments for the explanation generated in Why-not-choose column. For example, why would a desk-drawer have too many potential locations to search through? This seems to be model hallucinations to justify the correct answer. 
* The paper claims “Aligning Human Understanding and Model Explainability” as one of the major contributions in the intro section and it claims that this explanation can be used to train RLHF models. While I can believe that would be the case, I did not find any experiments to support this. Since this is mentioned as a core-contribution, I believe this merits validation by experiments.

#### Questions
* My biggest question is the effectiveness of the reason-set as an output of the GAT process? How accurate and effective are they? Because from the examples given in Fig 1 and appendix, they are unfortunately not very effective. 

* Instead of presenting this paper as a dataset generation paper, why not present this model + explanation from GPT-3.5 as a model for XAI? I believe the model itself has merits and analyzing its results could be interesting.

### Review 4
Rating: 5: marginally below the acceptance threshold
Confidence: 2: You are willing to defend your assessment, but it is quite likely that you did not understand the central parts of the submission or that you are unfamiliar with some pieces of related work. Math/other details were not carefully checked.

#### Summary
This work introduces a new explanation dataset for the Question Answering task by utilising knowledge graphs to build explanation components like why-choose and why-not-choose components, leveraging which will help in improving the performance of LLMs in this task. Graph attention and knowledge graphs are used to obtain the reason elements which are then converted to the why-choose and why-not-choose explanations which can be easily understood by humans. This dataset can be further used in RLHF which can improve the model’s performance. The dataset is constructed in the following manner : 

1)The subgraph retrieved from the knowledge graph, g_k is pruned to obtain g_e which has only the important relations of the question and answer entities.

2)Node-type embeddings, feature embeddings of the previous layer and the relational embeddings are used to calculate the feature embeddings of the current layer. The final layer nodes mimic the decision-making process and are used as the reason elements.

3)Top nodes ranked by alpha(attention mechanism) are used as reason elements from the final layer of the graph and a generator model like GPT-3.5-turbo is used to generate the why and why-not explanations in a controlled manner.

The dataset used to build the explanation dataset is the CommonsenseQA dataset and the LLM used is RoBERTa-Large.

Extensive evaluation in understanding the overall quality, understandability, trustworthiness, satisfaction, sufficiency of detail, irrelevance, completeness and accuracy of the dataset is conducted using human evaluations. The authors also show how the performance of the model improves over the baseline, GPT-3.5 by using explanations in all three scenarios, vanilla, chain-of-thought and self-consistency methods.

#### Strengths
This work introduces a novel explanation dataset which includes the why-choose and the why-not-choose explanations. These explanations can be better interpreted by humans and can improve the performance of the LLMs over the baseline method of not using the explanations in all types of scenarios, vanilla, chain-of-thought and self-consistency. This shows that these explanations are generalizable to most scenarios in improving the performance of the reasoning task.

#### Weaknesses
As per my understanding, the why-not choose part requires the dataset to have multiple-choice question answers and is not generalisable to other scenarios(please correct me if I am wrong).

Minor comment : There is a mismatch in the explanation of the equation 8 and the actual equation 8, where m_ts and m_es is mixed up. More clarification on this is required and it would be better to include how the message is computed in the main text rather than the appendix

#### Questions
1)What reasoning was used in choosing Roberta-Large as the LLM, M? Why was the masked language model used instead of autoregressive LLMs? Is it extendable to autoregressive models as well? 

2)Can the intuition behind equation 4 in page 6 be explained clearly?

3)How can the claim that the LLM’s reasoning is very similar to “why” explanations in the dataset since it improves the performance be made? It could merely be providing additional context which helps the LLM to provide better answer

## Meta Reviews

### Meta Review 1
This paper introduces a new explanation dataset for question answering. It contains 12k question-answer-explanation triples, generated by 1) extracting reason-element using a graph-attention network  model and a pruned KG, and 2) generating explanations given the reason elements and the correct answer with GPT-3.5. The quality of the dataset is verified by human and automatic eval metrics (with GPT-3.5 and GPT-4). It also shows that incorporating explanations significantly improves reasoning evaluation.

While the reviewers appreciate the novelty of the approach used to construct the dataset, almost all reviewers have raised concerns around the quality and the generalizability of the dataset. In particular, reviewers w11A and ZCRc questioned the decision of using RoBERTA-large for generating the reasoning elements, and were concerned that it might bias evaluation results. Reviewer MEtr also pointed out the the intermediate reason-elements were not validated, and might have quality issues.

## Decisions

Decision: Reject
